That’s why, depending
on Tao compatibility,
I’ll protect you strategically.
We’re both ninja,
but you and I are completely different.
My life comes first for me.
There's no way I'm risking my life!
I’m the same.
My goal is to return alive.
To live... and see my wife.
I have no intention of risking my life.
That’s enough...
All right, mission complete.
Let’s withdraw.
Make sure you don’t leave anything behind.
Gabimaru.
You’ve been acting strange lately.
You’ve stopped killing on every mission.
Back in the day,
you’d have wiped out any obstacles
before starting the job.
What's wrong with it?
- The mission was just to take this.
- Could it be that...
marriage changed your mindset?
Just getting married...
wouldn't change my heart.
Oh, welcome back!
Dear!
You’re not injured today.
I’m relieved.
Lately... killing and stuff...
I haven’t had any work like that.
I see.
I'm glad.
I'm glad!
It’s not a change of heart.
I’m just confused.
All my life,
I’ve only lived as a ninja,
but now I don’t even know
what face to make.
It... It's my favorite!
Chestnut rice!
‎I see.
I don’t even know what face to make.
So, what’s today’s mission?
Killing.
Gabimaru, empty of blood and tears,
that’s my true face.
Welcome...
Don't come closer.
My face looks terrible.
It will only scare you.
S... Stop!
You’ll get dirty...
A... Aren’t you scared?
Why would I be scared of you?
You're not a demon or a spirit, after all.
No matter what face you have,
you’re my husband.
As expected...
I don't even know what face to make.
But I don't want
to cloud her face.
Yui...
My goal is to return alive,
to see my wife.
I have no intention of risking my life.
So...
I’ll risk everything except my life.
My beliefs...
my logic, my common sense.
Even my humanity.
Gabimaru...
I'm sure he used a second technique.
A... secondary technique?
When a person merges with a flower,
if the flower’s Tao wins,
they turn into a flower.
But if both balance each other,
they gain the flower’s power.
Same with Tensen.
So then, my brother...
Yes.
But he won against the flower’s Tao.
The elixir from the flower
entered his body,
but the amount was small.
So the Tao balanced out.
He ended up with a body like a Tensen’s.
So, if we can control
the flower transformation,
we could gain the same
regenerative power as the Tensen.
Then there’s something I want to test.
Mu Dan's tendrils...
Using this, one can
voluntarily flower-transform.
The amount and balance
seem easier to adjust.
Too dangerous!
The balance was by chance.
Normally, even a small amount
would trigger flower transformation.
But Chobe did it.
Why was that?
Probably because he was near death.
Tao is consumed
by breathing, thinking, living.
But on the edge of death,
you do nothing, you think nothing,
so the Tao focused only on regeneration.
I see.
No, you do not!
Chobe is special.
Even unconscious, he can win
against the flower’s Tao.
His self is strong.
His will to live is strong.
My brother is special. Just give up.
You’re like everyone else.
Even if you stab one, you'll just
turn into a flower, and that’s the end.
Chobe was different from the others
because he had something to lose.
He was determined
because he had someone else
and couldn't allow himself to die.
No matter what else he lost.
So he could survive,
he abandoned being human.
That’s...
The secondary technique...
It’s extreme...
but...
for Gabimaru, it's possible.
No, I'm sure he'll do it.
If it brings him even a little closer
to his wife.
Even with regenerative power,
the battle won’t change much.
The opponent has overcoming.
Regeneration and Tao are weakened.
Durability increases only slightly.
You must avoid fatal wounds,
especially to the Tan Den,
that goes for both of us.
But that’s enough.
That alone is sufficient.
Sufficient to kill Ran
before my body is consumed by the flower.
You’re insane.
Keep fighting, die once,
abandon your humanity...
All for something not even certain.
It’s foolish. I can’t go along with it.
That may be true.
But...
some places can only
be reached by foolishness.
Calm or logic won’t get you there.
Sometimes you can only rely on instinct.
You’re selfish, but smart.
You wouldn't understand
what it is that can
make you act like a fool.
Right?
Smart people
don’t fight unwinnable battles.
But...
someone who tore your favorite clothes...
is unforgivable.
They're not yours.
With my fire Tao, I can’t deal
a fatal blow to Ran’s water Tao.
But with your earth Tao, you could do it.
Even with overcoming Tao,
if the difference is too great,
it becomes ineffective, right?
And unlike Mu Dan, she keeps
her intelligence even after transforming.
Will a makeshift
coordinated attack even work?
That’s exactly why it will work.
To be honest, it’s a gamble,
but it can’t be helped.
I'm doing this for my wife.
Ah, yes, yes, that.
Even after abandoning humanity, you’re
still the same, makes me oddly relieved.
Ninjutsu... amazing training and refinement!
Ninpo: Oni Hotaru!
Ninja Art: Fire Bridge
Ugh! I was going
to slam you to the ground.
This still works!
Ninja Art: Fire Monk
That's hot! Move!
Nothing will change,
no matter how many times you try.
I know what your plan is.
Your coordination is immature.
It's a useless struggle, but...
it's beautiful!
A desperate battle... ninjutsu...
The crystallized skill
of an imperfect human!
That's not all.
There's the ninjutsu
that can kill you too.
Fine. Show me everything.
All of it is training me.
It's fuel for guiding Tao.
Do we really need to provoke him?!
It's fine.
This is our only path to victory.
Ah, geez!
Fine, fine, let's do it!
Tao is consumed
by breathing, thinking, living.
Then kishikai would also consume a lot.
After the transformation ends,
Tao is fully spent.
They may end up with less than us.
Is that so?
Yes.
Kishikai uses a lot of Tao.
It won't last longer than half an hour.
Half an hour...
That’s long for a battle.
Is it over already?
Yeah, that'll do it.
I know that external reactions
are the same as a human’s.
Even to light.
So with excessive flashing,
we can create a temporary state
of nerve excitation.
Over-concentration from excitement
takes away judgment and sense of time.
A standard technique
during ninja interrogation.
There's no way...
We were buying time, waiting for this.
That’s long for a battle.
But if you endure half an hour...
It's a rare chance.
Kishikai collapses.
After Kishikai is undone,
their power disappears.
They are untouchable, god-like beings.
So we pull them into our range.
It's our only chance
to target their original Tao!
Before he used up all his Tao,
he released the transformation himself!
He's circulating Yin and Yang
and recovering Tao!
Yuzuriha! Destroy Ran's Tan Den with
your overcoming Tao before he recovers!
She can't do that.
I can see it.
Her serious injuries.
She's barely standing.
If she gathers Tao into
her weapons, she’ll die.
She’s not willing to risk her life.
That's right.
I come first.
I'll just end up dead if I do it.
But...
letting you live
will stress me to death anyway, I think.
In the end, you’ve got
to do what you want.
Life isn’t just about breathing.
Fine.
That's enough now.
You’ve got to do what you want.
Life isn't just about breathing.
My poor... brother...
You okay?
Hey, are you?
I only got pierced through by a pillar.
The overcoming Tao has no effect.
It’ll take time, but I'll regenerate.
But it’s not perfect, right?
The more you regenerate,
the more your body turns to tree.
Like the wooden people.
Limited regenerative power.
You die if you get harmed too much.
An even worse hell may await.
Still, to return to my wife,
there was no other way.
Truly admirable.
All right, if you’re okay, let’s go.
No way! You're joking, right?!
Let me rest!
There's no time.
We have to chase down Sagiri and Mei.
Also, currently, it’s unclear
who will reach the water gate.
We may need to get ahead.
Then go ahead first.
I’ll catch up after resting.
Are you really okay?
Oh, you’re worried about me?
Surprising! If your wife
found out, she’d be mad.
She’s not that petty.
I’m fine, really. Go ahead!
I'll be waiting for you.
Yuzuriha...
Huh? There's more?
Thank you for saving me.
I mean that sincerely.
Ugh, he really got me.
It's pretty deep.
I guess I got a little carried away.
It’s not like me.
Rin, Pyo, To, Sha,
Kai, Jin, Retsu, Zai, Zen...
I never show anyone anything sincere.
Living, dying...
I'll do it alone.
Do I need a reason
for just wanting to come back alive?
I don't want to die this young, that's it!
I'm sorry, Saya.
Your big sister tried to live as fully
as she could, for your sake too.
Guess this is it.
When it gets tough,
just think about the things you like.
Like cats, or people you love.
Your family...
Just picture beautiful scenery.
This is unexpected.
No...
It’s only natural
that imperfect Tao would prevail.
Where are you going?
To report to Rien.
You can do as you please.
Is that okay?
You're just going to leave us here?
It doesn't matter.
I told you,
I have no intention of fighting.
You... You're not going
to avenge your comrades?
Nope.
If they get eliminated, then that’s
just part of the training process.
Even Mei, the leader,
should have understood that.
Each Tensen is a seeker of the Way.
There’s no bond, no affection.
You were probably just
imitating what you saw, Mei.
Ever since leaving Horai,
you've just been hiding
and watching the island's decline.
Why did you come back now?
Life...
I finally understand it.
I was taught.
I see.
Must be nice.
What was that noise?
This doesn't look good.
Subtitle translation by: Maslin Friedman